Faction: Castille
Location: Unknown
Position: Unknown
Date: 5/20/2024
Author: Remedy
Deckname: 9.5 Lives
Archetype: Passive
Meta: Core

Link1: 
Link2: 

Soline el Gato

1x Patricia Moustakas
1x Maya de La Rioja
1x Makepeace Botwighte
1x Sanjay
1x "Madre" Dolores

1x Parley Gone Wrong
1x Shifting Blame
1x The Cat's Embargo
1x Let the Sword Decide
1x Marooned

2x Night of Drinking
1x Adaptable
2x Uppman's Jacket
2x Not Today
2x Robbery
2x A New Strategy
2x Liberating Goods
2x Matchlock Musket
2x Gallegos Blade
2x Carnaval
2x I'm Done with You
1x The Cat's Glass
2x Improvising
2x Drinking Games
2x Amour
2x Taunt
2x Breastplate
2x Hidden Corridors
2x Tending the Wounded
2x Shoddy Craftsmanship
2x Come Hither

Notes:
Played close to 10 games now with the below style of list. Core Set only.
I've found Castille to be a very reactive and flexibile faction out of the core set with it's strength been the disruption it brings to opponents strategy or gameplan. A well timed night of drinking or a taunt/come hither can really disrupt an opponent's Day.
Duel only if absolutely necessary and predominantly with Maya or Soline as required. The deck is filled with multiple high parry cards to try and mitigate wounds as well as 8 effects that don't send threat back to try and have duels stop in their tracks.
Main win condition is renown/cheeky control of key locations (especially docks thanks to Patricia) and multiple discard abilities to leverage a hand size advantage going into the mid-late game. 
I did test a version of the deck using the larger majority of duelists + wound manouvres to try and outvalue opponents but found the RPT values just don't compare particularly vs Montaigne or Eissen. The surprise moves, exhausts, cancels and send homes are what make Castille strong out of the core set. This deck aims to capitalise on that.
As always Adaptable used at the right time can eek out a surprise domination victory and this should always be kept in mind when moving into the mid to late game.

Additional notes:
- Source archive post 36: Castille (Core Set) -> Renown/Cheeky Dominance game plan AKA 9.5 Lives
- Archive attribution/date: Remedy — 2024-05-20
- The author identifies Renown as the main plan, with opportunistic Domination through location control and Adaptable. The list is Core Set only.
