Faction: Eisen
Location: Gen Con 2024
Position: 3rd Place, Top Eisen
Date: 8/4/2024
Author: Jon Palmer
Deckname: 
Archetype: Passive
Meta: TaC

Link1: 
Link2: 

Kaspar Dietrich

1x Edeline Trinken
1x Otto Streit
1x Philip Hase
1x Rosine Friese
1x Wilhelm Dünst

1x Armed and Marshaled
1x Marooned
1x Parley Gone Wrong
1x Shifting Tides
1x Until Morale Improves

2x Concealed Flintlock
1x Cross of the Martyrs
1x Dark Gift
2x Langschwert
2x Matchlock Musket
2x Polished Flintlock
2x Throwing Knife
2x Uppman's Jacket
2x Appealing to the People
2x Come Hither
2x Hexenjagd
2x Hidden Corridors
2x Last Word
2x Not Today
2x Opulence
2x Press the Advantage
2x Regroup
2x Sea Legs
2x Shoddy Craftsmanship
2x Stratege
2x Well Equipped

"Everything is Sad and Terrible" - a card analysis:
Kaspar - he is fine. Penya's existence is not.
Phil - the move action is still ridiculous, the technique helps on your rare fights. Stat stick + move ability is solid
Otto - I dunno what to do with this guy. Fewer than half of the attachments are actually good on their own, they're just in here to power other cards. Which means you can't run a ton of them. But at 14 attachments, you have a little more than a 1-in-4 chance of hitting nothing. So then he's a blank guy with bad stats, because Eisen was too good at the first GenCon and his influence got reduced from 3 to 2. 
Edaline - she's amazing most of the time on day 3 or day 4
Rosine - depends on if you're seeing Sorcerers, but the fact that she says non-Leader (and so does Press the Advantage) is incredibly limiting against Ussura. Is good against Vodacce and Montaigne and has random fun against Ravenna Destine.
Wilhelm - he replaced Uwe because 2 influence is useful on turn 5 and 1 influence is less useful

Marooned - almost an every-deck card at this point I think. 
Armed and Marshaled - goes off turn 2 or turn 3, Marooned is for the other turn. Action is very good if occasionally frustrating, and you should always pitch an attachment to pay a cost turn 1 so you have a target turn 2 if you want to use this
Shifting Tides - I think I used it once? In case of emergency break glass
Until Morale Improves - Remember where I was complaining about the lack of 0 cost actions? This has two 0 cost actions (the -2 cards is just the opportunity cost of playing the card from your hand, equivalent to a 0 cost action)
Parley Gone Wrong - this is terrible but I want another +1 panache scheme. We're apparently not allowed to have those as a faction. It has to be the turn 1 plot, so you can't really run Let the Sword Decide because you might not see a Weapon. Well, I guess you could Shifting Tides t1 but that just seems a bad plan

Attachments:

Dark Gift - ridiculously good, best card in the deck
Cross of the Martyrs - put this in for the 1x Paid Off I ran last year. Was good like, twice. Is the only card in the deck that triggers Wilhelm's ability.
Polished Flintlock - expensive but actually worth it since the mediocre RPT don't hurt you
Matchlock Musket - incredibly bad RPT but sometimes you snipe a dude and hey, it lets you Last Word or in the worst case scenario Phil
Throwing Knife - Free for Phil and Last Word
Langschwert - Free for Phil and useless for Last Word (every sword is a Ranged Weapon if you throw it hard enough)
Concealed Flintlock - Ranged and the 2 Riposte is kinda nice. Replaced Breastplate which was the worst card in the deck and somehow got even worse with the new set
Uppman's Jacket - Stylish. Actually good.

Risks:

Press the Advantage - has too many restrictions to cost 2 even tho the effect is solid. Mediocre RPT as well. But we take what we can get (I think that may actually be Eisen's national motto)
Well-Equipped - okay, this card is really good. Requires setup but is NOT a City action which is very important
Stratege - this one's really good too, mostly because it can move you from home. It doesn't feel like I was able to effectively move 2 characters all that often
Regroup - meh, it's in here because it ends a duel. Having a pertinent action is a plus
Hexenjagt - also in here because it ends a duel, although in an annoying way most of the time. Canceling spells is fun against Pull, at least
Last Word - usually good late in a turn, and the fact it's free means that when you're not an idiot like I was against Tom, it's an ideal card to have as the final card in your hand
Not Today - basically what the deck wants to do. I did have a game last year where I actually wanted to stay in a duel and gambled both of these
Opulence - of course
Sea Legs - really good as a reactive action, especially since we don't get any cool counterspells. Can also be used as a Hidden Corridors that engages your guy - not great, but it gets you from outside to outside in one action
Shoddy Craftsmanship - for Captain's Coat. Sometimes you'll want to break something else but outside of turning off Last Word in the mirror, you usually come out behind when you do that because the pricey stuff is all Unique
Appealing to the People - felt like I almost never got to use this, but maybe that was just situational for this event. Or maybe I'm just bad - well definitely that one
Come Hither - better than Press the Advantage like 90% of the time
Hidden Corridors - more movement, more duel cancel
Collapse

Additional notes:
- Source archive post 54: GenCon 2024 3rd Place/Top Eisen - Palmer
- Archive attribution/date: Palmer — 2024-08-06
