Faction: Montaigne
Location: Unknown
Position: Unknown
Date: 1/31/2024
Author: Rubric
Deckname: 
Archetype: Switch
Meta: TaC

Link1: https://discord.com/channels/643518732999589892/1006361189141446686/1202201104998211625
Link2: 

Odette Dubois d'Arrent

1x Bastien Girard
1x Henri Michelet
1x Sir Jack Harding
1x Jean Urbain
1x Urraca de Murrieta

1x Épée Sanglante
1x Gutter Full of Roses
1x Réputation Méritée
1x Shifting Tides
1x Tea and Cakes

2x Mastercrafted Rapier
2x Cavalier Hat
1x Tabard of the Fallen Musketeer
2x Defending Honor
2x Master of Valroux Style
1x A Heroic End
2x Legendary Reputation
2x Blood Mark
2x Broken-time
2x You're Embarrassing Yourself
2x I Know that Trick!
2x I'm Done with You
2x Not Today
1x Fratarnité!
1x Croc de Lion
2x Heroic Intervention
2x Diplomatic Immunity
2x Quick Reflexes
2x Unsanctioned Duel
2x Éventail
2x Battle of Wits
2x Concealed Flintlock

Notes:
Sir Jack Harding - This character is great.  Generally defensive, but you can set up situations where you funnel one of their characters into your Musket stack
Jean Urbain
Urraca de Murrieta - The combination with Gutter Full of Roses represents a potentially enormous swing in Renown, I had a 5 point swing on day 4 of a game which necessitated an all in attempt, which I was able to fend off.
Épée Sanglante
Gutter Full of Roses - This is a LOT of Renown, potentially need to be wary of factions that have the ability to alpha your characters just pilfering Renown off you.  Definitely needs a concerted effort to set up.
Tea and Cakes - Can be used to help set up Gutter, or just selectively murder a character, or force them to burn actions/cards to evade you, was pretty impressed with this, understand it's now lower initiative, but not sure that's particularly impactful
Fraternité - Never got used, improved version MIGHT be better, can see this staying as a 1 of to help out on your Gutter turn by giving you additional soak through Bastien
Croc de Lion - Never drew it, but I can't envision this card being anything less than amazing
Heroic Intervention - Unfortunately this ran into Night of Drinking every time I played it, but would have been enormously impactful.  Probably at it's worst against Castille, directly led to me losing game 1.
Diplomatic Impunity - Pretty mediocre early, but is at least a 2/1 R/P card for Odette , which helps her survive a little better.  Didn't come up, but having reactive ways to flip location control, even if they're 0's, seems really strong
Quick Reflexes - Incredibly good for defending Odette, both against incidental poke and also just being a 3 Riposte card for her when things get dicey.  Same applies for Bastien.
Unsanctioned Duel - Whoops, all challenges.  This one's pretty great because you're almost guaranteed to get several bites at the apple to get someone dead.
Éventail - Original version was mediocre, the updated version is a significant upgrade.  Consider throwing one of these on Jack or Jean so they hit the 3 Reflex breakpoint for Quick Reflexes.  Alternatively pair with a hat for the most fabulous Bastien who ever did get to 6+ Reflexes.
Battle of Wits - While I lost the game I did it, I got to do this with Odette holding a fan, and sent 6 Lethal threat back at Patricia.  The change to no longer permit Riposte I think is significant for using this with other characters (Particularly during Épée Sanglante), but as a card specifically for Odette, this probably is an upgrade, which I'm actually very pleased with.  The Action on it is similarly great, and in general, this is exactly the kind of card I want to see for Montaigne.
Concealed Flintlock - Only got to use it for base Riposte, I think because of how I'd build my version of the deck, I didn't get to see it really shine, but it's very plausible that you can pressure people's health with this and Bastien/Stranahan.

Additional notes:
- Source archive post 13: Rubric's Montaigne Deck 1-31-24
- Archive attribution/date: Agent006 — 2024-05-17
- The source included extensive card-by-card play notes; those inline comments are preserved below.
- Sir Jack Harding — This character is great.  Generally defensive, but you can set up situations where you funnel one of their characters into your Musket stack
- Urraca de Murrieta — The combination with Gutter Full of Roses represents a potentially enormous swing in Renown, I had a 5 point swing on day 4 of a game which necessitated an all in attempt, which I was able to fend off.
- Gutter Full of Roses — This is a LOT of Renown, potentially need to be wary of factions that have the ability to alpha your characters just pilfering Renown off you.  Definitely needs a concerted effort to set up.
- Tea and Cakes — Can be used to help set up Gutter, or just selectively murder a character, or force them to burn actions/cards to evade you, was pretty impressed with this, understand it's now lower initiative, but not sure that's particularly impactful
- Fraternité — Never got used, improved version MIGHT be better, can see this staying as a 1 of to help out on your Gutter turn by giving you additional soak through Bastien
- Croc de Lion — Never drew it, but I can't envision this card being anything less than amazing
- Heroic Intervention — Unfortunately this ran into Night of Drinking every time I played it, but would have been enormously impactful.  Probably at it's worst against Castille, directly led to me losing game 1.
- Diplomatic Impunity — Pretty mediocre early, but is at least a 2/1 R/P card for Odette , which helps her survive a little better.  Didn't come up, but having reactive ways to flip location control, even if they're 0's, seems really strong
- Quick Reflexes — Incredibly good for defending Odette, both against incidental poke and also just being a 3 Riposte card for her when things get dicey.  Same applies for Bastien.
- Unsanctioned Duel — Whoops, all challenges.  This one's pretty great because you're almost guaranteed to get several bites at the apple to get someone dead.
- Éventail — Original version was mediocre, the updated version is a significant upgrade.  Consider throwing one of these on Jack or Jean so they hit the 3 Reflex breakpoint for Quick Reflexes.  Alternatively pair with a hat for the most fabulous Bastien who ever did get to 6+ Reflexes.
- Battle of Wits — While I lost the game I did it, I got to do this with Odette holding a fan, and sent 6 Lethal threat back at Patricia.  The change to no longer permit Riposte I think is significant for using this with other characters (Particularly during Épée Sanglante), but as a card specifically for Odette, this probably is an upgrade, which I'm actually very pleased with.  The Action on it is similarly great, and in general, this is exactly the kind of card I want to see for Montaigne.
- Concealed Flintlock — Only got to use it for base Riposte, I think because of how I'd build my version of the deck, I didn't get to see it really shine, but it's very plausible that you can pressure people's health with this and Bastien/Stranahan.
