Faction: Montaigne
Location: UK Games Expo 2024
Position: 1st Place, Top Montaigne
Date: 6/1/2024
Author: OpTamusPrime
Deckname: 
Archetype: Switch
Meta: Core

Link1: 
Link2: 

Odette Dubois d'Arrent

1x Jean Urbain
1x Horatio Lockwood
1x Maxime de Lafayette
1x Bastien Girard
1x Léontine Giroux

1x Épée Sanglante
1x Réputation Méritée
1x Parley Gone Wrong
1x Marooned
1x Until Morale Improves

1x Porté Travel
1x Tabard of the Fallen Musketeer
2x Mastercrafted Rapier
2x Broken-time
2x Cavalier Hat
2x A Heroic End
2x Gallant Deeds
2x Legendary Reputation
2x Valiant Spirit
2x Appealing to the People
2x Bleed Out
2x Pull
2x Not Today
2x Sea Legs
2x You're Embarrassing Yourself
2x Friends at Court
2x I Know that Trick!
2x Uppman's Jacket
2x Blood Mark
2x Come Hither
2x Defending Honor

Notes:
I'd change appealing to the people to master of valeroux style in hindsight.

Q: How did heroic end and sea legs go for you? I've been cutting them from my Montaigne lists lately to fit in other cards (musket/triage for high thrust) I realise now bleed out achieves the same thing as triage which is nice. Neat list and congrats!
A: Heroic end is great for dragging some one down with you in a game of attrition. Sea legs was a recent addition. Mainly to keep oddette safe from some some unpleasant experiences v ussura recently. Not always useful but when it is it can be game saving. I used to play the musket but it's pretty inefficient. Costing you 3 cards for the first damage (musket, cost and discard) is a lot of investment and its telegraphed.
Q: Yeah, I've just been using the musket for the 5 thrust… Cool to see someone else using Haratio too.
A: He's been amazing for me
Q: Only feel bad is when an opponent uses I know that trick back into him haha
A: There's some talk about the games in the general chat
Q: Did you try opulence is the other card I wondered about you have a lot of 2 cost cards?
A: I've never ran it. It's rpt is so bad I'd rather just pitch another card rather than risk a bad gamble 
Q: Yeah that's the never ending debate. It really weakens your gamble.
Q: Why Master over Appealing?
A: I think appealing to the people is a kind of bad card. Not great rpt and it's very much a win more card. Motvs replaces itself is stop 3 send 3 back which is great rpt
Q: I see the big trick at the bottom now! The opponent adds a +1 Thrust forcing the opponent to stay in the fight.

Additional notes:
- Source archive post 40: 6-0 Montaigne at UKGE
- Archive attribution/date: OpTamusPrime — 2024-06-02
- The author said they would replace Appealing to the People with Master of Valroux Style in hindsight. Spreadsheet abbreviations were expanded where the supplied transcription identified the full card name.
