Faction: Ussura
Location: Unknown
Position: Unknown
Date: 11/17/2022
Author: Sparrowhawk
Deckname: A Hammer is for Hammering
Archetype: Dueling
Meta: Core

Link1: 
Link2: 

Yevgeni

1x Torsten Vakt
1x Nazem ibn Umur
1x Valeri Mikhailov
1x Ren
1x Elina Georginova

1x Parley Gone Wrong
1x Filling the Ranks
1x The Boar's Guile
1x Leshiye of the Wood
1x Shifting Tides

1x Strength of Ten
1x Grandfather's Hammer
2x Razrushitel
2x Strong Hands
2x Sunder
2x Matushka's Sight
2x Predatory Pursuit
2x Stubborn
2x Liberating Goods
2x Corpse Speak
2x Boon
2x Devotion
2x Pull
2x Come Hither
2x A New Strategy
2x Matushka's Efficiency
2x Mireli's Revision
2x Shoddy Craftsmanship
2x Appealing to the People
2x Indomitable Will
2x Iron and Velvet

Notes:
No dueling only cards. Concept is to make every gamble into "very likely to parry 2 and counter threat 3+" to grind duels and have a predictable safe pick.

Also to play the limited core pool meta. Assuming Liberating Goods becomes non-Unique like Robbery, there are no targets for Shoddy Craftsmanship + Liberating (yes, no using our Uppman's Jacket against us) as Yevgeny cannot afford card parity trades like Jacket -> Shoddy. Mireli Sabre and similar are perfect "I Know That Trick!" targets. Yevgeny unable to afford X+2 cards to deal X wounds on adj. engaged enemies over X days via Musket (--5 too aggressive). Opponent can play attachment on Yevgeny to prevent Iron and Velvet play (other reason to avoid attachments).

Parley Gone Wrong: open, no recruit ever
Filling the Ranks: ASAP then culling
The Boar's Guile: their leader near death
Leshiye of the Wood: other opener, 2 dudes
Shifting Tides: disrupt renown/cards
Torsten: open, 2inf
Nazem: high resolve early
Valeri: best vs. Odette
Ren: catch-up
Elina: double engages
Strength of Ten: double action assassinate
Hammer: edge case: Torsten/Ren final strike assassinate
Matushka's Sight: edge case seed 3 gambles
Predatory Pursuit: anti-escape when assassinating
Corpse Speak: edge case play by Elina
Boon: edge case play by Elina
Devotion: edge case play post-errata
Mireli's Revision: anti-escape when assassinating
Appeal to the People: Yevgeny extra challenge
Iron and Velvet: Yevgeny extra challenge, no attachments on him

Additional notes:
- Source archive post 26: Sparrowhawk's "A Hammer is for Hammering"
- Archive attribution/date: Agent006 — 2024-05-17
- Core-pool assassination concept built to make gambles likely to parry 2 and return 3+ threat, grinding duels while avoiding duel-only cards.
- Parley Gone Wrong — open, no recruit ever
- Filling the Ranks — ASAP then culling
- The Boar's Guile — their leader near death
- Leshiye of the Wood — other opener, 2 dudes
- Shifting Tides — disrupt renown/cards
- Torsten Vakt — open, 2inf
- Nazem ibn Umur — high resolve early
- Valeri Mikhailov — best vs. Odette
- Ren — catch-up
- Elina Georginova — double engages
- Strength of Ten — double action assassinate
- Grandfather's Hammer — edge case: Torsten/Ren final strike assassinate
- Matushka's Sight — edge case seed 3 gambles
- Predatory Pursuit — anti-escape when assassinating
- Corpse Speak — edge case play by Elina
- Boon — edge case play by Elina
- Devotion — edge case play post-errata
- Mireli's Revision — anti-escape when assassinating
- Appealing to the People — Yevgeny extra challenge
- Iron and Velvet — Yevgeny extra challenge, no attachments on him
