Faction: Vodacce
Location: Unknown
Position: Unknown
Date: 5/20/2024
Author: Remedy
Deckname: Blood on the Streets
Archetype: Passive
Meta: Core

Link1: 
Link2: 

Don Constanzo Scarpa

1x Servo Scarpa
1x Sarafina
1x Vittoria Anselmo
1x Sibella Scarpa
1x Cesca Del Rosso

1x Contempt and Hatred
1x Until Morale Improves
1x The Great Game
1x Plans within Plans
1x Marooned

2x Not Today
2x For the Family
2x Uppman's Jacket
2x Matchlock Musket
2x Bravos
2x I'm Done with You
2x Wrath of the Don
1x Buratino
1x Angelo
2x The Pressure is On
1x Alcee
2x Pack Tactics
2x Objection!
2x Pull
2x Bleed Out
2x Stiletto
2x Corpse Speak
2x Veronica's Guile
1x Legion's Caress
2x Hidden Corridors
2x Unyielding Loyalty
1x Dante
1x Pull the Strand

Notes:
Early days playing with Vodacce but gameplan is predominalty to accumulate renown advantage while slowly haemorraging the opponent with wounds from non-dueling interactions + thug duels. Mid-game can consider switching to an assassination game plan using Scarpa biggest issue with my current list is the absence of Ambush...will probably need to fit it back into the deck and cut the 2 unique cards, I'm just enjoying exploring the card pool space atm.

Overall the vast majority of the Vodacce cards feel very very powerful and I think as a faction they do a lot of the core fundementals towards obtaining victory quite well. As others have noted including I beleive the desigeners, thugs appear to be the strongest card type in the game at present. There is some hate coming to them next set but in the interim it's been really fun to explore the strengths and limited weaknesses of a Vodacce deck. 

Not sure how others feel about the scheme selection, I wish for 1 more +1 scheme but I find it hard to cut any of the ones selected for the current game plan as above. 

I also cut Fate's Burden due to the Errata but not sure whether it still has a home in this sort of deck.

Additional notes:
- Source archive post 38: Vodacce (Core Set) -> Renown/Domination with sneaky chance at assassination.
- Archive attribution/date: Remedy — 2024-05-20
- The author describes a Renown/Domination plan with incremental wounds and an opportunistic switch to assassination. The list is Core Set only.
