Faction: Vodacce
Location: Unknown
Position: Unknown
Date: 1/16/2024
Author: Nick Pruitt
Deckname: Murder Most Foul
Archetype: Switch
Meta: Core

Link1: 
Link2: 

Don Constanzo Scarpa

1x Cirilo Naucriparos
1x Servo Scarpa
1x Sarafina
1x Vissenta Scarpa
1x Sibella Scarpa

1x Contempt and Hatred
1x Until Morale Improves
1x The Great Game
1x Let the Sword Decide
1x Plans within Plans

2x For the Family
2x A New Strategy
2x Liberating Goods
2x Bravos
2x Ambush
2x Wrath of the Don
1x Buratino
1x Angelo
2x The Pressure is On
1x Alcee
2x Pack Tactics
2x Paid Off
2x Bleed Out
2x Opulence
2x Stiletto
2x Veronica's Guile
1x I Know that Trick!
2x Unyielding Loyalty
1x Legion's Caress
2x Shoddy Craftsmanship
1x Dante
2x Rough 'em Up
2x Come Hither

Notes:
@nickpruitt runs a really effective Vodacce assassination deck, and his showing at Gen Con ended up leading to Servo Scarpa (the linchpin of his strategy) being the one to kill the fifth Musketeer in the player-driven story.

The assassination deck is a bit of a setup, and Nick may speak on it of he sees this and has time. Basically it hinges on using cards like Ambush and Rough Em Up in conjunction with Servo to score effective assassination victories. Servos's move&attack action allows him to threaten multiple locations, Ambush let's him select a specific target, and Rough Em Up + the Servo technique let him send a huge amount of threat. 

As far as thugs, it is not an understatement to say that thugs are the best thing in the game by a wide margin and Vodacce's repeated top performance is thanks in large part to successful use of them. 

Here's my deck list. Carl did a great job of describing the main damage dealers. Don't be afraid to throw thugs around to get a point or two of damage on a leader even if it means the thug dies. My typical turn one is plan within plans and Cirilo if there are decent mercs on the board. If there aren't great mercs then I go with servo. Though the deck is made for assassination wins, don't think you can't get a domination or renown win. I think the deck sacrifices very little effectiveness for either of those victory types to gain its lethality. Let me know if you have any questions.

Additional notes:
- Source archive post 28: Pruitt's Murder Most Foul
- Archive attribution/date: Agent006 — 2024-05-17
- The author describes an assassination plan centered on Servo Scarpa, Ambush, and Rough 'em Up, while retaining possible Domination or Renown wins.
